In this crucial role within the Financial Crime Analytics team, you’ll provide technical leadership and direction to experienced analysts responsible for the development and delivery of reporting, analytics, business intelligence and related data projects supporting “Know Your Customer/Client” (KYC) and Customer Due Diligence (CDD).

You’ll design and build data models to fulfil the strategic data needs for the organisation, which facilitates efficient data management and the security to support Financial Crime decision-making.

You’ll have the responsibility for managing and monitoring ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) workflows to ensuring data is accurately and efficiently transferred between systems. You’ll also identify areas of improvement within the existing data infrastructure, promoting the use of data mining and other technologies that align with the organisations needs and future scalability requirements.
If you’ve experience in a similar role, this could be a great opportunity to develop your career.




We’re shaping the way we work through innovation, cutting-edge technology, collaboration and the freedom to explore new ideas. To succeed in this role, you will be responsible for:
Supporting the Data Analysis & Management Information requirements for all Economic and Financial Crime Projects
Supporting and creation of tools for Operational areas.
Extracting and analysing large volumes of data from the bank’s data lake and various legacy platforms.
Helping to expand the existing data warehouse - reporting through MS SSRS and Tableau
Supporting BAU & Operational needs with data driven efficiency improvements.
Mentor and oversee project teams, fostering a culture of quality and continuous improvement

What you bring:

Our people are our greatest strength. Every individual contributes unique perspectives that make us stronger as a team and as an organisation. We’re enabling teams to go beyond by valuing who they are and empowering what they bring.
The following requirements represent the knowledge, skills, and abilities essential for success in this role. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

Professional Experience 

Experience with database technologies (SQL), cloud solutions (AWS) and Snowflake [Required]
Extensive SQL Server experience [Required]
Data modelling experience (Both dimensional and OLTP) [Preferred]
Experience with reporting tools (Power BI & SSRS) [Preferred]
Proven track record of automating manual processes [Required]

Education

Experience designing data solutions specifically for financial services. [Required]
Experience integrating data across cloud technologies, specifically AWS platform. [Preferred]
Exposure to AI and machine learning analytics [Preferred]

Hard Skills:

Advanced SQL query optimisation and performance tuning (Required)
Stored procedures, triggers, views and indexing strategies (Required)
Data modelling (Required)
ETL / ETL Pipeline develaopment and maintenance (Required)
Database design and schema management (Required)
Query execution (Required)
Snowflake datawarehouse development and administration (Preferred)
AWS ecosystem: S3, Lambda, Glue, Redshift, Athena, IAM (Preferred)
Data Migration and Integration (Preferred)
Automation of data workflows in AWS/Snowflake (Preferred)
Python or Scala for data transcripts (Preferred)
BI Tools – Power BI (Preferred)
Data Validation, profiling, quality assurance (Required)

Soft Skills:

Analytical thinking (Required)
Problem solving (Required)
Attention to detail (Required)
Team Player - Collaboration – works effectively with cross-functional teams (data engineers, analysts, DevOps) (Required)
Adaptability (Required)
Project Ownership (Required)
Time Management (Required)

