Platform Engineer/Technical Analyst based out of Milton Keynes.

We are seeking highly skilled S3 Platform Engineer – Technical Analyst to join Santander’s IT Obsolescence programme, helping us modernise our technology estate by replacing, upgrading, or decommissioning end-of-life systems.

You’ll make sure changes are delivered securely, efficiently, and ready for BAU support — with full production readiness and operational transition in place.

We’re shaping the way we work through innovation, cutting-edge technology, collaboration and the freedom to explore new ideas. To succeed in this role, you will be responsible for:

Managing and coordinating OS upgrades, migrations, and decommissioning activities.

Supporting application teams with middleware (MQ, WebSphere, BizTalk) for upgrades and migrations.

Providing asset discovery and application mapping to support obsolescence planning.

Ensuring infrastructure changes meet production readiness and operational transition requirements.

Supporting problem management, root cause analysis, and incident investigations.



WHAT YOU’LL BRING

Our people are our greatest strength. Every individual contributes unique perspectives that make us stronger as a team and as an organisation. We’re enabling teams to go beyond by valuing who they are and empowering what they bring.

The following requirements represent the knowledge, skills, and abilities essential for success in this role. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.



Professional Experience 

Broad understanding of different operating systems, databases, middleware, and networking — experience working with RHEL, Windows, Oracle, DB2, and PostgreSQL is highly favourable. (Required)

Understanding of Solution Architecture principles to drive end-to-end remediation capability. (Required)

Strong data analytical skills to determine alignment of Orphan assets to business areas. (Required)

Hands-on experience in asset discovery and application mapping. (Required)

Delivery management and oversight of internal and external teams and their associated portfolios. (Required)

Awareness of compliance frameworks such as GDPR and SOX. (Preferred)

Degree in IT, Engineering, or equivalent experience. (Preferred)

ITIL Foundation (Required).

Experience in production readiness and operational transition for infrastructure projects. (Preferred)



Education

Degree in IT, Engineering, or equivalent experience (Preferred)



Languages

Spanish (Preferred)



Hard Skills

Broad understanding of operating systems (RHEL, Windows) (Preferred)

Experience with databases (Oracle, DB2, PostgreSQL) (Preferred)

Middleware knowledge (MQ, WebSphere, BizTalk) (Preferred)

Asset discovery and application mapping (Preferred)

Solution Architecture principles (end-to-end remediation) (Preferred)

Data analytical skills (aligning orphan assets to business areas) (Preferred)

Delivery management and oversight of technical teams (Preferred)

Awareness of compliance frameworks (GDPR, SOX) (Preferred)

Experience in production readiness and operational transition for infrastructure projects (Preferred)

ITIL Foundation certification (Required)



Soft Skills

Strong collaboration and teamwork abilities (working with internal and external teams) (Required)

Effective communication skills (supporting application teams, coordinating activities) (Required)

Analytical thinking and problem-solving (root cause analysis, incident investigations) (Required)

Proactive and responsible approach to risk management. (Required)

Adaptability and willingness to embrace innovation and change. (Required)

Attention to detail (ensuring production readiness, operational transition). (Required)

Organisational and delivery management skills. (Required)



WE VALUE YOUR IMPACT

At Santander, your contribution matters. We recognise the difference you make every day, and we make sure you feel valued, supported and rewarded in return.Here, recognition goes beyond pay. It’s about the pride you feel in your work, the impact you have on customers and communities, and the opportunities you have to grow and thrive — personally and professionally.



30 days’ holiday plus bank holidays, which increases to 31 days after 5yrs service, with the option to purchase up to 5 contractual days per year

£6,000 car allowance per year

Company funded individual private medical insurance

Protection for you and your family, with company-funded death-in-service benefit and income protection insurance, and the option to take advantage of discounted rates for additional life assurance and critical illness cover.

Share in Santander’s success by saving or investing in our share plans. 

As a Santander UK employee, you are able to request staff versions of our products like our Edge Current Accounts and Credit Cards with no fees, as well as apply to many other deals and discounts in Santander products and services

Competitive rewards that reflect the real impact you make and the value you bring.

Wellbeing that goes beyond work — we work with a range of wellbeing partners across our 4 pillars of wellbeing (physical, mental, social and financial) to give you access to a suite of apps, discounted gym and fitness access, weekly online classes, flexible healthcare and mental health support.

Support for every life stage — from menopause and pregnancy to parenthood and beyond, with enhanced family leave, childcare options and tailored wellbeing support.

Time to give back through volunteering opportunities that let you make a difference in the communities we serve.

Global growth opportunities to shape your career, learn new skills and explore what’s possible across our international network.



Ready to be recognised? It starts with you.

